# python-project
Final project for Python

For the Python Final Project I have done for this class, I chose to program a to-do list style program that has the features of either adding a task, removing a task, changing the status of a task, dn listing all tasks available. This is done by incorporating SQL, or sqlite3, into the program itself. On top of this being what the program is and does, I also used Arguments to construct the code, because I felt like it would make the whole program run or be a lot more smoother down the line, and also making the help option a lot more built-in to an extent.

The first step was making the table with the script contained in the create_table.py file, which is just a simple create table in a database. The only issue that came up was the completed column wasn't being created, so I just went in and manually added the column into my sql database/table using the following command in sqlite. (ALTER TABLE todolist ADD COLUMN completed INTEGER NOT NULL CHECK (completed IN (0, 1)); Other than that, it was a simple part.

After constructing the table I went through and created files and functions for each part of the program. One for making a new task, removing a task, listing tasks, and setting one to completed. Each file or function was made by importing the sqlite3 module and using most of the processes we used when we originally did our SQL lab. The only one that was a little tricky was the task_list.py file or function, since listing out the task in the console took some time to figure the correct syntax and code for it. Other than that, the other steps were done well and worked out.

Than, it came down to combining everything in the Main python file, or the parser for the arguments, which consisted of importing the functions in, setting up the arguments that would be processed by using them, and adding the if, elif, and else statements related to that at the bottom. After combining everything and testing it, there were a couple errors going on. The first part was me accidentally pluralizing task for the args.new if statement, which was luckilly an easy fix. After that, it came down to figuring out why the remove and completed_task function/argument weren't working. The function was not selecting the number assigned to the task inside the table, which had me confused for a while. Luckilly it was a simple and easy fix with me just having to only indent the conn.commit() statement into the function, instead of being "outside" of it. It was unfortunate after finding that out, but it happens.

Overall the project took me around 2 hours and 15 minutes to complete, and I had a really fun time creating it, since I could never imagine myself being able to make something like this. I've always been iffy on programming and that goes for any language, but I think this class has definitely changed that for the better.
